docs/source/gettingstarted/config.rst, before:

Configuring Bootleg
====================

By default, Bootleg loads the default config from `bootleg/utils/parser/bootleg_args.py <../apidocs/bootleg.utils.parser.html#module-bootleg.utils.parser.bootleg_args>`_. When running a Bootleg model, the user may pass in a custom JSON or YAML config via::

  python3 bootleg/run.py --config_script <path_to_config>

This will override all default values. Further, if a user wishes to overwrite a param from the command line, they can pass in the value, using the dotted path of the argument. For example, to overwrite the data directory (the param ``data_config.data_dir``, the user can enter::

  python3 bootleg/run.py --config_script <path_to_config> --data_config.data_dir <path_to_data>

Bootleg will save the run config (as well as a fully parsed verison with all defaults) in the log directory.

Emmental Config
________________

As Bootleg uses Emmental_, the training parameters (e.g., learning rate) are set and handled by Emmental. We provide all Emmental params, as well as our defaults, at `bootleg/utils/parser/emm_parse_args.py <../apidocs/bootleg.utils.parser.html#module-bootleg.utils.parser.emm_parse_args>`_. All Emmental params are under the ``emmental`` configuration group. For example, to change the learning rate and number of epochs in a config, add

.. code-block::

  emmental:
    lr: 1e-4
    n_epochs: 10
  run_config:
    ...

You can also change Emmental params by the command line with ``--emmental.<emmental_param> <value>``.

Example Training Config
________________________
An example training config is shown below

.. code-block::

    emmental:
      lr: 2e-5
      n_epochs: 3
      evaluation_freq: 0.2
      warmup_percentage: 0.1
      lr_scheduler: linear
      log_path: logs/wiki
      l2: 0.01
      grad_clip: 1.0
      fp16: true
    run_config:
      eval_batch_size: 32
      dataloader_threads: 4
      dataset_threads: 50
    train_config:
      batch_size: 32
    model_config:
      hidden_size: 200
    data_config:
      data_dir: bootleg-data/data/wiki_title_0122
      data_prep_dir: prep
      use_entity_desc: true
      entity_type_data:
        use_entity_types: true
        type_symbols_dir: type_mappings/wiki
      entity_kg_data:
        use_entity_kg: true
        kg_symbols_dir: kg_mappings
      entity_dir: bootleg-data/data/wiki_title_0122/entity_db
      max_seq_len: 128
      max_seq_window_len: 64
      max_ent_len: 128
      overwrite_preprocessed_data: false
      dev_dataset:
        file: dev.jsonl
        use_weak_label: true
      test_dataset:
        file: test.jsonl
        use_weak_label: true
      train_dataset:
        file: train.jsonl
        use_weak_label: true
      train_in_candidates: true
      word_embedding:
        cache_dir: bootleg-data/embs/pretrained_bert_models
        bert_model: bert-base-uncased

Default Config
_______________
The default Bootleg config is shown below

.. literalinclude:: ../../../bootleg/utils/parser/bootleg_args.py


.. _Emmental: https://github.com/SenWu/Emmental

Commit message:

fix: added strip/lower flags to constants.py for better multilingual support

docs/source/gettingstarted/config.rst, after:

Configuring Bootleg
====================

By default, Bootleg loads the default config from `bootleg/utils/parser/bootleg_args.py <../apidocs/bootleg.utils.parser.html#module-bootleg.utils.parser.bootleg_args>`_. When running a Bootleg model, the user may pass in a custom JSON or YAML config via::

  python3 bootleg/run.py --config_script <path_to_config>

This will override all default values. Further, if a user wishes to overwrite a param from the command line, they can pass in the value, using the dotted path of the argument. For example, to overwrite the data directory (the param ``data_config.data_dir``, the user can enter::

  python3 bootleg/run.py --config_script <path_to_config> --data_config.data_dir <path_to_data>

Bootleg will save the run config (as well as a fully parsed verison with all defaults) in the log directory.

Finally, when evaluating Bootleg using the annotator, Bootleg processes possible mentions in text with two environment flags: ``BOOTLEG_STRIP`` and ``BOOTLEG_LOWER``. For first is if the user wants to strip punctuation on mentions (set to False by default). The second is if the user wants to call ``.lower()`` (set to True by default).

Emmental Config
________________

As Bootleg uses Emmental_, the training parameters (e.g., learning rate) are set and handled by Emmental. We provide all Emmental params, as well as our defaults, at `bootleg/utils/parser/emm_parse_args.py <../apidocs/bootleg.utils.parser.html#module-bootleg.utils.parser.emm_parse_args>`_. All Emmental params are under the ``emmental`` configuration group. For example, to change the learning rate and number of epochs in a config, add

.. code-block::

  emmental:
    lr: 1e-4
    n_epochs: 10
  run_config:
    ...

You can also change Emmental params by the command line with ``--emmental.<emmental_param> <value>``.

Example Training Config
________________________
An example training config is shown below

.. code-block::

    emmental:
      lr: 2e-5
      n_epochs: 3
      evaluation_freq: 0.2
      warmup_percentage: 0.1
      lr_scheduler: linear
      log_path: logs/wiki
      l2: 0.01
      grad_clip: 1.0
      fp16: true
    run_config:
      eval_batch_size: 32
      dataloader_threads: 4
      dataset_threads: 50
    train_config:
      batch_size: 32
    model_config:
      hidden_size: 200
    data_config:
      data_dir: bootleg-data/data/wiki_title_0122
      data_prep_dir: prep
      use_entity_desc: true
      entity_type_data:
        use_entity_types: true
        type_symbols_dir: type_mappings/wiki
      entity_kg_data:
        use_entity_kg: true
        kg_symbols_dir: kg_mappings
      entity_dir: bootleg-data/data/wiki_title_0122/entity_db
      max_seq_len: 128
      max_seq_window_len: 64
      max_ent_len: 128
      overwrite_preprocessed_data: false
      dev_dataset:
        file: dev.jsonl
        use_weak_label: true
      test_dataset:
        file: test.jsonl
        use_weak_label: true
      train_dataset:
        file: train.jsonl
        use_weak_label: true
      train_in_candidates: true
      word_embedding:
        cache_dir: bootleg-data/embs/pretrained_bert_models
        bert_model: bert-base-uncased

Default Config
_______________
The default Bootleg config is shown below

.. literalinclude:: ../../../bootleg/utils/parser/bootleg_args.py


.. _Emmental: https://github.com/SenWu/Emmental
